# spudai



	
Spud Ai


Spud Ai is a computer program that is an attempt to create artificial intelligence (AI). The program is built by taking my understanding of "the mind" and turning that understanding into a computer program. The program is also a practical tool and is used for numerous tasks in my everyday life.

Wikipedia describes Artificial intelligence (AI) as the intelligence exhibited by machines or software, and the branch of computer science that develops machines and software with intelligence. Major AI researchers and textbooks define the field as "the study and design of intelligent agents",[1] where an intelligent agent is a system that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chances of success.[2] John McCarthy, who coined the term in 1955,[3] defines it as "the science and engineering of making intelligent machines.

The Spud Ai's basic function is to process information in an intelligent manor and respond accordingly. It has numerous processing functions and algorithms that act on information in different ways most of these are language based which gives the Ai the ability to work as a chat bot. There is a main database called the Brain Database (BD), entries in the BD are called Cells. A cell can either hold information or it can be 'activated', when activated the cells neural network takes the input code, processes it through the network and produces the output code. How the input code is processed and the output it produces is dependant on how the network has been trained. The output nodes can be connected to other cells input nodes, the Tag field is also used to control how the output is used. As the Ai evolves the BD grows in size.

When used as chat bot the language processes take the input and process it in different ways. The majority of these processes come from flashes of inspiration. Whether these inspirational bits of code form some sort of mind or produce replies that show some form of intelligence only time will tell, as these work by forming connections that evolve as the Ai builds up its data base. Data is inputted manually or by the various learning processes (LM). Learning processes add data which is then worked on by the various processes, this gives the Ai the ability to output correct information without having being told about the specific subject but from associations only. Other processes are designed to give specific answers to specific questions or use some of the input in the output.

The Ai is packed full of functions which gives the Ai the ability to perform many practical tasks. As the Ai evolves more functions are added. Keywords associated to a cell word are used for many of the functions. Cells 800 to 2000 are know as system cells these are used by the various functions and processes including various input output devices from hardware to networking. Cell 2000 and upward are used for data storage like words and patterns.

The things the Ai can be used for is an ever growing list, its designed to be flexible in usage. There are functions within the Ai that are there because i've needed software to do a certain task. Instead of creating a new program i just add a new function to the Ai.

Here is a list of things i use the Ai for: searching indexed files for information, working as a chat bot on a web page, creating price list information for my company web site, indexing job files for my companies database, taking a picture of my solar controller and sending it to the web server, playing music, controlling relays in my house, monitoring and controlling power distribution from my renewable energy systems, object recognition for the robot mapping functions, controlling a robot, quick information like finding out tomorrows weather and the main news story and talking to.

The Ai is designed to do things i haven't even thought of.

The program is under constant test and runs for long periods of time it is designed to be as stable as possible, there are some functions that monitor program stability and react if any problems are found, either by fixing the problem automatically or by alerting the user.

The programs main input is text words which can be generated by voice to text programs, network messages, text files, keyboard, web page form etc. There is also ways of inputting data directly into the neural network.

The input is processed by the program and then it produces an output which could be to run a script, program, create a web page send a message through a network, create a sentence, activate the neural network.

The answer is created according to how the input is translated using various functions within the program which use information in the Brain Database.

The Ai program is available as a free download as long as you accept and agree to the following:
We take no responsibility for any consequences that may occur from using the program.
You must not train the Ai to break its own law, know as Robot Law which is a text file and is part of the download.
You must not disassemble the program in any way. 
You may use, pass on, redistribute as you like as long as you don't remove any copyright notices. If you pass the program on you must make sure you also supply the link to this page.
The documentation may be unclear or at times confusing, this situation will change over time as the project develops. 
© 2004 - 2017 Piet Defoe